ARROW-15178: [Java][Docs] Java Tutorial: Developer Docs for Java (#12534)
apache/arrow: docs/source/developers/java/building.rst

        -DARROW_PLASMA=ON \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR=lib \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../java-dist \
        -DCMAKE_UNITY_BUILD=ON \
        -Dre2_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DBoost_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -Dutf8proc_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DSnappy_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DORC_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DZLIB_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        ../cpp
    $ cmake --build . --target install
    $ ls -latr  ../java-dist/lib
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.dylib
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.dylib
    |__ libgandiva_jni.dylib

Building Arrow JNI Modules
--------------------------

To compile the JNI bindings, use the ``arrow-c-data`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.c.jni.dist.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-c-data clean install

To compile the JNI bindings for ORC / Gandiva / Dataset, use the ``arrow-jni`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-jni clean install

IDE Configuration
=================

IntelliJ
--------

To start working on Arrow in IntelliJ, just open the `java/`
subdirectory of the Arrow repository.

> * For JDK 8 consider to disable `error-prone` profile to project build successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For JDK 8, disable the ``error-prone`` profile to build the project successfully.
```

> * For JDK 11 project build successfully with all profiles enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For JDK 11, the project should build successfully with the default profiles.
```

        -DARROW_GANDIVA_STATIC_LIBSTDCPP=ON \
        -DARROW_GANDIVA=ON \
        -DARROW_ORC=ON \
        -DARROW_PLASMA_JAVA_CLIENT=ON \
        -DARROW_PLASMA=ON \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR=lib \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../java-dist \
        -DCMAKE_UNITY_BUILD=ON \
        -Dre2_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DBoost_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -Dutf8proc_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DSnappy_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DORC_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DZLIB_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        ../cpp
    $ cmake --build . --target install
    $ ls -latr  ../java-dist/lib
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.dylib
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.dylib
    |__ libgandiva_jni.dylib

Building Arrow JNI Modules
--------------------------

To compile the JNI bindings, use the ``arrow-c-data`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.c.jni.dist.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-c-data clean install

To compile the JNI bindings for ORC / Gandiva / Dataset, use the ``arrow-jni`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-jni clean install

IDE Configuration
=================

> IntelliJ IDE
> ------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IntelliJ
--------
```

IntelliJ can import Maven projects. To start working on Arrow in IntelliJ, just open the `java/`
subdirectory of the Arrow repository.

.. figure:: img/java_welcome.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: A newly opened Arrow project

An option to understand the arrow java code is running the java unit test in debugging mode to see
objects initialized parameters and values assigned.

Let's debug `TestArrowBuf.java`_ to see `ArrowBuf` object initialization. Go to the java class `TestArrowBuf.java`
and method `testSetBytesBigEndian`, add breakpoints needed, right click on the method name and select option
mention `Debug 'testSetBytesBigEndian()'` and inspect te variable when debug mode arrive to `ArrowBuf` variable.

.. figure:: img/java_debug_mode.png
   :scale: 50 %

>    :alt: An ArrowBuf variable initialized with parameters and values assigned.

Reviewer: Again: I think this is all very basic stuff for an IntelliJ user. The reason why I brought up IDEs in the first place was because I recalled that IntelliJ needed some settings in order to build Arrow (due to using error-prone). If that's not the case anymore, then all we need to do is tell people to open the Java subdirectory, and I don't think we need to add screenshots or anything else. We shouldn't add more text for the sake of adding it.

Author: Oh, ok, I get it. Let me test error-prone and add if is something is needed, if not only add  a text mention open the project for modules needed

Reviewer: The other thing is that I recall builds don't work for me as the generated code is not indexed by IntelliJ by default. But that may be down to doing a build instead of a Maven build.

Author: Updated

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. highlight:: console

.. _building-arrow-java:

===================
Building Arrow Java
===================

.. contents::

> System setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
System Setup
```

Author: Changed

============

Arrow Java uses the `Maven <https://maven.apache.org/>`_ build system.

Building requires:

> * JRE 8, 9, 10, 11. Consider: Battle tested by arrow CI checks: JRE 11 (defined: `java.yml`_, result: `java.runs`_)

Reviewer: What does this mean? Can we just say "JDK 8, 9, 10, or 11, but only JDK 11 is tested in CI"? we don't need to link to GitHub Actions here.

Author: Updated

        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR=lib \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../java-dist \
        -DCMAKE_UNITY_BUILD=ON \
        -Dre2_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DBoost_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -Dutf8proc_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DSnappy_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DORC_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DZLIB_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        ../cpp
    $ cmake --build . --target install
    $ ls -latr  ../java-dist/lib
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.dylib
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.dylib
    |__ libgandiva_jni.dylib

Building Arrow JNI Modules
--------------------------

To compile the JNI bindings, use the ``arrow-c-data`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.c.jni.dist.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-c-data clean install

To compile the JNI bindings for ORC / Gandiva / Dataset, use the ``arrow-jni`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-jni clean install

IDE Configuration
=================

IntelliJ IDE
------------

Go to open java project and select java folder.

This is the initial view for java project loaded with default profiles:

.. image:: img/java_welcome.png

>    :alt: An example image to opening java project

Reviewer: It's already an image, we don't need to describe that. "A newly opened Arrow project in IntelliJ" or something like that.

Author: Updated

Let's create our maven configuration: java-dataset

.. image:: img/java_mvn_configuration.png

>    :alt: An example image to create new maven configurations and parameters needed

Reviewer: Specifically, we should say which settings need to be changed to which values.

Also: do these `alt` blocks show up in the text? I think we should use the [figure directive](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#figure) which allows a caption.

Author: Changed

        -DARROW_ORC=ON \
        -DARROW_PLASMA_JAVA_CLIENT=ON \
        -DARROW_PLASMA=ON \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR=lib \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../java-dist \
        -DCMAKE_UNITY_BUILD=ON \
        -Dre2_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DBoost_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -Dutf8proc_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DSnappy_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DORC_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DZLIB_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        ../cpp
    $ cmake --build . --target install
    $ ls -latr  ../java-dist/lib
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.dylib
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.dylib
    |__ libgandiva_jni.dylib

Building Arrow JNI Modules
--------------------------

To compile the JNI bindings, use the ``arrow-c-data`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.c.jni.dist.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-c-data clean install

To compile the JNI bindings for ORC / Gandiva / Dataset, use the ``arrow-jni`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-jni clean install

IDE Configuration
=================

IntelliJ IDE
------------

Go to open java project and select java folder.

> This is the initial view for java project loaded with default profiles:

Reviewer: Again, for all of these, we should say exactly what the user needs to change. A screenshot isn't enough. Or in other words, if the user _can't see the screenshot_, they should still know what to do.

Also note that for `.. figure::`, the caption is _not_ the alt text. The caption is text that is part of the figure directive.

Author: Deleted

        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR=lib \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../java-dist \
        -DCMAKE_UNITY_BUILD=ON \
        -Dre2_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DBoost_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -Dutf8proc_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DSnappy_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DORC_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DZLIB_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        ../cpp
    $ cmake --build . --target install
    $ ls -latr  ../java-dist/lib
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.dylib
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.dylib
    |__ libgandiva_jni.dylib

Building Arrow JNI Modules
--------------------------

To compile the JNI bindings, use the ``arrow-c-data`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.c.jni.dist.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-c-data clean install

To compile the JNI bindings for ORC / Gandiva / Dataset, use the ``arrow-jni`` Maven profile:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-jni clean install

IDE Configuration
=================

IntelliJ IDE
------------

Go to open java project and select java folder.

When IntelliJ open arrow java project its compiled automatically and show you maven modules inside root project and

> also offer a side bar to see profile and maven plugin configured by default.

Author: Added.

.. figure:: img/java_welcome.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: A newly opened Arrow project

Also IntelliJ offer options to configure custom run/debug configurations to setup maven module working directory,
maven command line to run, profiles, configure JRE to use, add environment variables as some examples of these.

> Option available at: Run -> Edit Configurations.

Author: Deleted

Let's create our maven configuration: java-dataset

.. figure:: img/java_mvn_configuration.png
   :scale: 50 %

>    :alt: Setup new maven configurations with working directory, command to run and profile used to build

Author: Changed to explain how to debug classes to inspect values assigned to variable.

> Let's define our JRE runner:

Reviewer: Is this actually necessary?

Author: Deleted

.. figure:: img/java_jre_runner.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Setup maven configurations with JRE selected

> Let's configure additional environment variables:

Reviewer: This is only necessary if we want to work with the JNI modules, right? We should explain that.

Author: Deleted because is adding complexity to simple task

.. figure:: img/java_jre_env_properties.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Setup maven configurations with environment variables and properties per building

IntelliJ also, offer a run option button to runs configuration created. Option available at: Run -> Run 'java-dataset'.

> Let's run our java-dataset maven configuration created:

Author: Section deleted

.. figure:: img/java_run_mvn_configuration.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Option to run new maven configuration created

Also you could see results of your run automatically on the Run Toolbar. Option available at: View -> Tool Windows -> Run

.. figure:: img/java_run_mvn_configuration_result.png
   :scale: 50 %

>    :alt: Results to run new maven configuration created

Author: Deleted

    [INFO] Arrow Tools ........................................ SUCCESS [ 11.015 s]
    [INFO] Arrow JDBC Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [ 13.751 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Plasma Client ................................ SUCCESS [  3.934 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight ....................................... SUCCESS [  0.649 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Core .................................. SUCCESS [ 38.331 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight GRPC .................................. SUCCESS [  5.894 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight SQL ................................... SUCCESS [ 21.862 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Integration Tests ..................... SUCCESS [  7.638 s]
    [INFO] Arrow AVRO Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [ 14.447 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Algorithms ................................... SUCCESS [ 35.105 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Performance Benchmarks ....................... SUCCESS [  5.323 s]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------\

> JNI Libraries

Reviewer: "Building JNI Libraries on Linux"?

Author: Updated

> Building C & C++ JNI Libraries on Linux

Reviewer: nit, but let's just call it JNI Libraries. "C & C++" is misleading at best here.

Author: Changed

-------------

For Build C Data Interface lib & Build C++ Libs. Consider: Next step requires: Docker, Docker Compose, `archery`_.

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow
    $ archery docker run java-jni-manylinux-2014
    $ ls -latr java-dist/
    |__ libarrow_cdata_jni.so
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.so
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.so
    |__ libgandiva_jni.so

> Building C & C++ JNI Libraries on MacOS

Reviewer: "Building JNI Libraries on MacOS"?

Author: Updated

---------------------------------------

> For Build C Data Interface lib:

Reviewer: "To build only the C Data Interface library:"

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow
    $ brew bundle --file=cpp/Brewfile
    Homebrew Bundle complete! 25 Brewfile dependencies now installed.
    $ export JAVA_HOME=<absolute path to your java home>
    $ mkdir -p java-dist java-native-c
    $ cd java-native-c
    $ cmake \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR=lib \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../java-dist \
        ../java/c
    $ cmake --build . --target install
    $ ls -latr ../java-dist/lib
    |__ libarrow_cdata_jni.dylib

> For Build C++ Interface libs:

Reviewer: "To build other JNI libraries:"

Author: Changed

        -DARROW_GRPC_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_LZ4_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_OPENSSL_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_PROTOBUF_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_SNAPPY_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_THRIFT_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_UTF8PROC_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_ZSTD_USE_SHARED=OFF \
        -DARROW_JNI=ON \
        -DARROW_PARQUET=ON \
        -DARROW_FILESYSTEM=ON \
        -DARROW_DATASET=ON \
        -DARROW_GANDIVA_JAVA=ON \
        -DARROW_GANDIVA_STATIC_LIBSTDCPP=ON \
        -DARROW_GANDIVA=ON \
        -DARROW_ORC=ON \
        -DARROW_PLASMA_JAVA_CLIENT=ON \
        -DARROW_PLASMA=ON \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR=lib \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../java-dist \
        -DCMAKE_UNITY_BUILD=ON \
        -Dre2_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DBoost_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -Dutf8proc_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DSnappy_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DORC_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        -DZLIB_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
        ../cpp
    $ cmake --build . --target install
    $ ls -latr  ../java-dist/lib
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.dylib
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.dylib
    |__ libgandiva_jni.dylib

> Building Arrow JNI Libraries

Reviewer: "Building Arrow JNI Modules"?

Author: Updated

----------------------------

> Java arrow-c-data maven profile:

Reviewer: ```"To compile the JNI bindings, use the ``arrow-c-data`` Maven profile:"```

    [INFO] Arrow Flight SQL ................................... SUCCESS [ 17.390 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Integration Tests ..................... SUCCESS [  6.148 s]
    [INFO] Arrow AVRO Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [  9.635 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Algorithms ................................... SUCCESS [ 26.949 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Performance Benchmarks ....................... SUCCESS [  4.211 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Orc Adapter .................................. SUCCESS [  6.522 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Gandiva ...................................... SUCCESS [01:20 min]
    [INFO] Arrow Java Dataset ................................. SUCCESS [ 12.949 s]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------

IDE Configuration
=================

IntelliJ IDE
------------

Go to open java project and select java folder.

This is the initial view for java project loaded with default profiles:

.. image:: img/java_welcome.png

Let's create our maven configuration: java-dataset

> .. image:: img/java_mvn_configuration.png

Reviewer: Each of these images needs text to describe what exactly the user should be changing.

Author: Added

Let's define our JRE runner:

.. image:: img/java_jre_runner.png

> Let's configure additional environment properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's configure additional environment variables:
```

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. highlight:: console

.. _building-arrow-java:

===================
Building Arrow Java
===================

.. contents::

System setup
============

Arrow Java uses the `Maven <https://maven.apache.org/>`_ build system.

Building requires:

> * JRE 8, 9, 10, 11

Reviewer 2: JDK 8 or above?  Might be worth to mention versions above what is currently in tests aren't guaranteed to work.

Author: Changed. Mention: JRE 8,9,10,11 also mention that CI runs only for JRE11.

    [INFO] Arrow Compression .................................. SUCCESS [  5.907 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Tools ........................................ SUCCESS [ 11.015 s]
    [INFO] Arrow JDBC Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [ 13.751 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Plasma Client ................................ SUCCESS [  3.934 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight ....................................... SUCCESS [  0.649 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Core .................................. SUCCESS [ 38.331 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight GRPC .................................. SUCCESS [  5.894 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight SQL ................................... SUCCESS [ 21.862 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Integration Tests ..................... SUCCESS [  7.638 s]
    [INFO] Arrow AVRO Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [ 14.447 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Algorithms ................................... SUCCESS [ 35.105 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Performance Benchmarks ....................... SUCCESS [  5.323 s]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] BUILD SUCCESS

>     [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------\

Reviewer 2: not sure you need to include Reactor Summary as it might change in the future

Author: Deleted

Building JNI Libraries on Linux
-------------------------------

> For Build C Data Interface lib & Build C++ Libs. Consider: Next step requires: Docker, Docker Compose, `archery`_.

Reviewer 2: Build -> building? Actually, I'm a little confused by this line, are you trying to say to build the C/C++, it requires Docker etc?

Reviewer: I guess we can be more explicit. "First, we need to build the C++ shared libraries that the JNI bindings will use. We can build these manually (link to C++ documentation here), or we can use Archery to build them using a Docker container. This will require installing Docker, Docker Compose, and Archery."

Author: Thanks, changed

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow

>     $ archery docker run java-jni-manylinux-2014

Reviewer 2: can you link to archery setup doc?

Author: Updated

    [INFO] Arrow Flight Integration Tests ..................... SUCCESS [  6.148 s]
    [INFO] Arrow AVRO Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [  9.635 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Algorithms ................................... SUCCESS [ 26.949 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Performance Benchmarks ....................... SUCCESS [  4.211 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Orc Adapter .................................. SUCCESS [  6.522 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Gandiva ...................................... SUCCESS [01:20 min]
    [INFO] Arrow Java Dataset ................................. SUCCESS [ 12.949 s]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------

IDE Configuration
=================

IntelliJ IDE
------------

Go to open java project and select java folder.

This is the initial view for java project loaded with default profiles:

.. image:: img/java_welcome.png
   :alt: An example image for opening java project

Let's create our maven configuration: java-dataset

.. image:: img/java_mvn_configuration.png

>    :alt: An example image for create new maven configurations and parameters needed

Reviewer 2: image for -> image to

Author: Changed

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. highlight:: console

> .. _building-arrow-cpp:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _building-arrow-java:
```

===================
Building Arrow Java
===================

.. contents::

System setup
============

> Arrow Java use Maven as a project management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arrow Java uses the `Maven <https://maven.apache.org/>`_ build system.
```

Building requires:

* JRE 8, 9, 10, 11
* Maven 3+

Building
========

All the instructions below assume that you have cloned the Arrow git
repository:

.. code-block::

    $ git clone https://github.com/apache/arrow.git
    $ cd arrow
    $ git submodule update --init --recursive

Basic Installation
------------------

> You can also build java project for default modules configured.
> Go to parent project and execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build the default modules, go to the project root and execute:
```

    [INFO] Arrow Tools ........................................ SUCCESS [ 11.015 s]
    [INFO] Arrow JDBC Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [ 13.751 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Plasma Client ................................ SUCCESS [  3.934 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight ....................................... SUCCESS [  0.649 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Core .................................. SUCCESS [ 38.331 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight GRPC .................................. SUCCESS [  5.894 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight SQL ................................... SUCCESS [ 21.862 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Integration Tests ..................... SUCCESS [  7.638 s]
    [INFO] Arrow AVRO Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [ 14.447 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Algorithms ................................... SUCCESS [ 35.105 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Performance Benchmarks ....................... SUCCESS [  5.323 s]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------\

> Advanced Installation

Reviewer: Maybe make this explicitly about "Installing JNI Modules"?

Author: Changed to: headings "Building C++ JNI Libraries on Linux", "Building C++ JNI Libraries on MacOS", and "Building Arrow JNI Libraries"

---------------------

Build C / C++ Libs

> ++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer: There's getting to be too many levels of headings here, maybe we can remove this heading and make the headings "Building C++ JNI Libraries on Linux", "Building C++ JNI Libraries on MacOS", and "Building Arrow JNI Libraries"?

Author: Changed

Build C / C++ Libs Ubuntu
#########################

For Build C Data Interface lib & Build C++ Libs. Consider: Next step requires: Docker & Docker Compose.

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow

>     $ source dev/conbench_envs/hooks.sh install_archery

Reviewer: Let's not use the internal hooks, we can link to the Archery docs instead

Author: Updated

    Successfully installed archery
    $ archery docker run java-jni-manylinux-2014
    $ ls -latr java-dist/
    |__ libarrow_cdata_jni.so
    |__ libarrow_dataset_jni.so
    |__ libarrow_orc_jni.so
    |__ libgandiva_jni.so

Build C / C++ Libs MacOS
########################

For Build C Data Interface lib:

.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow
    $ brew bundle --file=cpp/Brewfile
    Homebrew Bundle complete! 25 Brewfile dependencies now installed.

>     $ export GITHUB_WORKSPACE=<absolute path to your arrow project>

Reviewer: Let's not use CI-specific variables, we can just get rid of the env var and use `./java_dist`, etc

Author: Changed

    [INFO] Arrow Flight ....................................... SUCCESS [  2.357 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Core .................................. SUCCESS [ 38.837 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight GRPC .................................. SUCCESS [  5.955 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight SQL ................................... SUCCESS [ 17.390 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Flight Integration Tests ..................... SUCCESS [  6.148 s]
    [INFO] Arrow AVRO Adapter ................................. SUCCESS [  9.635 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Algorithms ................................... SUCCESS [ 26.949 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Performance Benchmarks ....................... SUCCESS [  4.211 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Orc Adapter .................................. SUCCESS [  6.522 s]
    [INFO] Arrow Gandiva ...................................... SUCCESS [01:20 min]
    [INFO] Arrow Java Dataset ................................. SUCCESS [ 12.949 s]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------

IDE Configuration
=================

> Go to open java project and select java folder.

Reviewer: Add a section so it's clear this is for IntelliJ

Author: Added

This is the initial view for java project loaded with default profiles:

.. image:: img/java_welcome.png

Let's create our maven configuration: java-dataset

.. image:: img/java_mvn_configuration.png

Let's define our JRE runner:

.. image:: img/java_jre_runner.png

Let's configure additional environment properties:

.. image:: img/java_jre_env_properties.png

Let's run our java-dataset maven configuration:

.. image:: img/java_run_mvn_configuration.png

.. image:: img/java_run_mvn_configuration_result.png

Common Errors
=============

> 1.- Errors related to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the build cannot find dependencies, with errors like these:
```

    - Could NOT find Boost (missing: Boost_INCLUDE_DIR system filesystem)
    - Could NOT find Lz4 (missing: LZ4_LIB)
    - Could NOT find zstd (missing: ZSTD_LIB)

>     Consider to configure parameters that download software at the build time with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Download the dependencies at build time:
```

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: This block needs to be indented more

Author: Updated

    -Dre2_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
    -DBoost_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
    -Dutf8proc_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
    -DSnappy_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
    -DORC_SOURCE=BUNDLED \
    -DZLIB_SOURCE=BUNDLED \

> 

Reviewer: We can link to the C++ docs e.g. https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/cpp/building.html#individual-dependency-resolution

Author: Added

> 2.- Errors related to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Errors related to:
```

    - Caused by: java.lang.NoSuchFieldException: reservedMemory.

>     We could move from classBits.getDeclaredField("reservedMemory") to classBits.getDeclaredField("RESERVED_MEMORY")

Reviewer: Remove this section and just file a JIRA

Author: Deleted

Reviewer: What was the JIRA?

Author: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ARROW-15834
